NAME
      Workspace.pm -- Persistent, multi-purpose text processor.
      (File browser, shell, editor) script. Requires Perl/Tk.

SYNOPSIS
       # Create a workspace from the shell prompt:

         #mkws "workspace"

       # Open an existing workspace from the shell prompt:

         #./workspace <options> &

       # Open from a Perl script:

          use Tk;
          use Tk::Workspace;

          Tk::Workspace::open(Tk::Workspace::create("workspace"));

       # Create workspace object:

          $w = Tk::Workspace -> new( textfont => "*-courier-medium-r-*-*-12-*",
                                     foreground => 'white',
                                     background => 'black',
                                     scroll => 'se',
                                     height => 351,
                                     width => 565,
                                     x => 100,
                                     y => 100,
                                     insertionpoint => '1.0',
                                     menubarvisible => 'True',
                                     text => 'Text to be inserted' );

DESCRIPTION
    Workspace uses the Tk::TextUndo widget to create an embedded Perl text
    editor. The resulting file can be run as a standalone program.

COMMAND LINE OPTIONS
    A Workspace recognizes the same command line options as its parent
    Tk::MainWindow. Refer to the Tk::CmdLine manual page for a list of the
    options and their function.

    The command line options and the workspace parameters generally
    complement each other. The command line color and font options act on
    the widget colors; e.g., menus and dialogs, while the embedded values
    specify colors and fonts for editable text. The most notable exception
    to a standard command-line option is -geometry, where a Workspace will
    use its persistent geometry (that is, the default geometry when last
    saved), instead of a command line geometry specification.

MENU FUNCTIONS
    A workspace contains a menu bar with File, Edit, Options, and Help
    menus.

    The menus also pop up by pressing the right mouse button (Button-3) over
    the text area, whether the menu bar is visible or not.

    The menu functions are provided by the Tk::Workspace, Tk::TextUndo,
    Tk::Text, and Tk::Widget modules.

  File Menu

    Import Text -- Insert the contents of a selected text file at the
    insertion point.

    Export Text -- Write the contents of the workspace to a text file.

    System Command -- Prompts for the name of a command to be executed by
    the shell, /bin/sh. The output is inserted into the workspace.

    For example, to insert a manual page into the workspace, enter:

       man <programname> | colcrt - | col -b

    Shell -- Starts an interactive shell. The prompt is the PS1 prompt of
    the environment where the workspace was started. At present the
    workspace shell recognizes only a subset of the bash prompt variables,
    and does not implement command history or setting of environment
    variables in the subshell.

    Due to I/O blocking, results can be unpredictable, especially if the
    called program causes an eof condition on STDERR. For details refer to
    the Tk::Shell POD documentation.

    Refer to the bash(1) manual page for further information.

    Typing 'exit' leaves the shell and returns the workspace to normal text
    editing mode.

    Save -- Save the workspace to disk.

    Quit -- Close the workspace window, optionally saving to disk.

  Edit Menu

    Undo -- Reverse the next previous change to the text.

    Cut -- Delete the selected text and place it on the X clipboard.

    Copy -- Copy the selected text to the X clipboard.

    Paste -- Insert text from the X clipboard at the insertion point.

    Evaluate Selection -- Interpret the selected text as Perl code.

    Find -- Search for specified text, and specify search options. Marks
    text for later replacement (see below).

    Find Next -- Find next match of search text.

    Previous -- Find previous match of search text.

    Replace -- Replace marked search text with text from the replacement
    entry.

    Goto Line -- Go to the line entered by the user.

    Which Line -- Report the line and column position of the insertion
    point.

  Options Menu

    Wrap -- Select how the text should wrap at the right margin.

    Scroll Bars -- Select from scroll bars at right or left, top or bottom
    of the text area.

    Show/Hide Menubar -- Toggle whether the menubar is visible. A popup
    version of the menus is always available by pressing the right mouse
    button (Button 3) over the text area.

    Color Editor -- Pops up a Color Editor window. You can select the text
    attribute that you want to change from the Colors -> Color Attributes
    menu. Pressing the Apply... button at the bottom of the Color Editor
    applies the color selection to the text. The most useful attributes for
    Workspace text are foreground, background, and insertBackground.

    Text Font -- Select text font from list of system fonts.

  Help Menu

    About -- Report name of workspace and modification time, and version of
    Workspace.pm library.

    Help -- Display the Workspace.pm POD documentation in a text window
    formatted by pod2text.

KEY BINDINGS
    For further information, please refer to the Tk::Text and Tk::bind man
    pages.

        Alt-Q                 Quit, Optionally Saving Text
        Alt-S                 Save Workspace to Disk
        Alt-U                 Undo
        Alt-X                 Copy Selection to Clipboard and Delete
        Alt-C                 Copy Selection to Clipboard
        Alt-V                 Insert Clipboard Contents at Cursor
    
        Right, Ctrl-F         Forward Character
        Left, Ctrl-B          Backward Character
        Up, Ctrl-P            Up One Line
        Down, Ctrl-N          Down One Line
        Shift-Right           Forward Character Extend Selection
        Shift-Left            Backward Character Extend Selection
        Shift-Up              Up One Line, Extend Selection
        Shift-Down            Down One Line, Extend Selection
        Ctrl-Right, Meta-F    Forward Word
        Ctrl-Left, Meta-B     Backward Word
        Ctrl-Up               Up One Paragraph
        Ctrl-Down             Down One Paragraph
        PgUp                  Scroll View Up One Screen
        PgDn                  Scroll View Down One Screen
        Ctrl-PgUp             Scroll View Right
        Ctrl-PgDn             Scroll View Left
        Home, Ctrl-A          Beginning of Line
        End, Ctrl-E           End of Line
        Ctrl-Home, Meta-<     Beginning of Text
        Ctrl-End, Meta->      End of Text
        Ctrl-/                Select All
        Ctrl-\                Clear Selection
        F16, Copy, Meta-W     Copy Selection to Clipboard
        F20, Cut, Ctrl-W      Copy Selection to Clipboard and Delete
        F18, Paste, Ctrl-Y    Paste Clipboard Text at Insertion Point
        Delete, Ctrl-D        Delete Character to Right, or Selection
        Backspace, Ctrl-H     Delete Character to Left, or Selection
        Meta-D                Delete Word to Right
        Meta-Backspace, Meta-Delete
                              Delete Word to Left
        Ctrl-K                Delete from Cursor to End of Line
        Ctrl-O                Open a Blank Line
        Ctrl-X                Clear Selection
        Ctrl-T                Reverse Order of Characters on Either Side
                              of the Cursor
    
        Mouse Button 1:
        Single Click: Set Insertion Cursor at Mouse Pointer
        Double Click: Select Word Under the Mouse Pointer and Position 
        Cursor at the Beginning of the Word
        Triple Click: Select Line Under the Mouse Pointer and Position 
        Cursor at the Beginning of the Line
        Drag: Define Selection from Insertion Cursor
        Shift-Drag: Extend Selection
        Double Click, Shift-Drag: Extend Selection by Whole Words
        Triple Click, Shift-Drag: Extend Selection by Whole Lines
        Ctrl: Position Insertion Cursor without Affecting Selection

        Mouse Button 2:
        Click: Copy Selection into Text at the Mouse Pointer
        Drag:Shift View

        Mouse Button 3: 
        Pop Up Menu Bar

        Meta                  Escape

METHODS
    There is no actual API specification, but Workspaces recognize the
    following instance methods:

    about, bind, close_dialog, create, editmenu, elementColor,
    evalselection, filemenu, filenotfound, fontdialogaccept,
    fontdialogapply, fontdialogclose, geometry, goto_line, height, helpmenu,
    insert_output, insertionpoint, ishell, libname, menubar, menubarvisible,
    menus, my_directory, name, new, open, optionsmenu, parent_ws, popupmenu,
    postpopupmenu, process_args, prompt, scroll, scrollbar, self_help,
    set_scroll, shell_client, shell_cmd, text, textfont, togglemenubar,
    what_line, width, window, wrap, write_to_disk, ws_copy, ws_cut,
    ws_export, ws_font, ws_import, ws_paste, ws_undo, x, y

    The following class methods are available:

    new, ScrollMenuItems, WrapMenuItems, workspaceobject.

    The 'new' constructor recognizes the settings of the following options,
    which are used by Workspace.pm :

    window, name, textfont, width, height, x, y, foreground, background,
    textfont, filemenu, editmenu, optionsmenu, wrapmenu, scrollmenu,
    modemenu, helpmenu, menubar, popupmenu, menubarvisible, scroll,
    scrollbuttons, insertionpoint, text

CREDITS
    Tk::Workspace by rkiesling@mainmatter.com (Robert Kiesling)

      Perl/Tk by Nick Ing-Simmons.
      Tk::ColorEditor widget by Steven Lidie.
      Perl by Larry Wall and many others.

REVISION
    $Id: Workspace.pm,v 1.50 2000/10/28 19:26:59 kiesling Exp kiesling $

SEE ALSO:
    Tk::overview(1), Tk::ColorEditor(1), perl(1) manual pages.

